-------------------------------------
  Number: 39
  Title: Modeling speech production using the Neural Engineering Framework
-------------------------------------

Review 1:

The manuscript reports on first steps in the direction of defining a
neurobiologically plausible model of speech production. This
integrates two lines of research. The first research line relates to a
geometrical approach to acoustic articulation based on a set of
contour points (for the lips, tongue, etc.) obtained from static MRI
scans for three contours representing the extremal cardinal vowels.
This approach assumes that other relevant vocal tract shapes can be
interpolated (given certain constrictions and coarticulatory
corrections). The second research line relates to the neural
engineering framework. Starting from the assumption that phonological
representations arise during early phases of speech acquisition and
are not predefined in the model at the beginning of speech
acquisition, the manuscript proposes that lexical items and phonetic
representations of syllables within the speech action repository can
be represented in the neural engineering framework. ! In addition, the
manuscript briefly introduces a preliminary architecture of the model.

This is an interesting manuscript, well suited to the Conference in
terms of topic and presentation style. Although it reports on first
steps on defining the model, it builds on considerable previous work.

The following remarks are minor suggestions for further improvement of
the manuscript.

1. The authors state that the proposed approach can be used to model
speech acquisition and speech production. Although it is clear how the
model can be used for the purpose of speech production, the authors
are advised to consider the possibility to further clarify how the
model can be used for speech acquisition.

2. It would be also useful for the reader if the control parameters
introduced in the first paragraph of Section III were illustrated in
more detail.

3. The authors might want to reformulate (syntactically complex)
sentence "Sensorimotor as well as semantic knowledge concerning ..."
(VI, p. 4).

4. (p. 2) "generated by interpolated between".

5. (p. 4) "motor sates".

6. All words in the tile, except the article, should be capitalized.

-------------------------------------

Review 2:

This paper proposes a neurobiological model of speech production that
utilizes Nengo and the Neural Engineering Framework (NEF)

The Neural Engineering Framework (NEF; Eliasmith and Anderson, 2003)
and the associated open-source toolkit Nengo (<http://nengo.ca>)
provide a general method for implementing high-level cognitive
theories by using biologically realistic spiking neurons. The first
author has worked in the field of modeling speech acquisition and
speech processing, and the other two developed NEF and the Nengo
toolkit. Therefore, by exploiting the idea of speech actions, in this
study Nengo and NEF are applied for the first time to test such
modeling. The data show that it is possible to obtain details of some
processes for speech acquisition and speech modeling by using the
above mentioned tool. It is a preliminary version but it is very
interesting since it foresees the modeling of other speech production
processes and of specific aspects of speech disorders.

The paper is well written and technically sound and it fits into the
session of Multimodal Communicative Signals from a cognitive and
theoretical point of view.

However, what is missing in the paper is an explicit account of how
the authors’ model and theoretical framework could address cognitive
information communication issues. The authors should fill this gap
with a short explanation.

Possible references to the background behind CogInfoCom include:

P. Baranyi and A. Csapo, "Definition and Synergies of Cognitive
Infocommunications," Acta Polytechnica Hungarica, vol. 9, pp. 67–83,
2012.

G. Sallai, "The Cradle of Cognitive Infocommunications," Acta
Polytechnica Hungarica, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 171–181, 2012.

P. Baranyi and A. Csapo, "Cognitive Infocommunications: CogInfoCom,"
in Computational Intelligence and Informatics (CINTI), 2010 11th
International Symposium on, Budapest, Hungary, 2010, pp. 141–146.

Earlier papers presented at CogInfoCom conferences and published in
journal special issues on CogInfoCom can also be referred to in order
to help localize the topic of the paper within the field, and to help
improve the scientific quality and coherence of the conference.
